THREAD
	A thread is a single sequence stream of programmed instructions within in a process that can be 
	managed independently by a scheduler.

THREAD VS PROCESS
	
	processes are independent execution units that contain their own state information, use their 
	own address spaces, and only interact with each other via interprocess communication mechanisms 
	(generally managed by the operating system). 
	Applications are typically divided into processes during the design phase, and a master process 
	explicitly spawns sub-processes when it makes sense to logically separate significant 
	application functionality. Processes, in other words, are an architectural construct.

	By contrast, a thread is a coding construct that doesn't affect the architecture of an 
	application. A single process might contains multiple threads. All threads within a process 
	share the same state and same memory space, and can communicate with each other directly, 
	because they share the same variables.

	Threads typically are spawned for a short-term benefit that is usually visualized as a serial 
	task, but which doesn't have to be performed in a linear manner mathematical computation using 
	parallelism).
	
	The scope of a thread is within a specific code module—which is why we can bolt-on threading 
	without affecting the broader application.

	processes are typically independent, while threads exist as subsets of a process
	
	processes carry considerably more state information than threads, whereas multiple threads 
	within a process share process state as well as memory and other resources
	
	processes have separate address spaces, whereas threads share their address space
	
	processes interact only through system-provided inter-process communication mechanisms
	context switching between threads in the same process is typically faster than context 
	switching between processes.

WHEN TO USE A THREAD AND WHEN TO USE A PROCESS
	
	threads are popular way to improve application through parallelism.
	Inter-thread communication (sharing data etc.) is significantly simpler to program than inter
	process communication.

	Context switches between threads are faster than between processes. That is, it's quicker for 
	the OS to stop one thread and start running another than do the same with two processes.

EXAMPLES

	Doing lengthy processing: When a windows application is calculating it cannot process any more 
	messages. As a result, the display cannot be updated.

	Doing background processing: Some tasks may not be time critical, but need to execute 
	continuously.

	Doing I/O work: I/O to disk or to network can have unpredictable delays. Threads allow you to
	ensure that I/O latency does not delay unrelated parts of your application

MULTI-THREADED PROGRAM
	A program that handles and executes a stream of tasks which independent to each other.

MAIN PROBLEMS THAT MULTITHREADING CAN SOLVE

	Improved application responsiveness - any program in which many activities are not dependent 
	upon each other can be redesigned so that each activity is defined as a thread.

	Improved program structure - many programs are more efficiently structured as multiple 
	independent or semi-independent units of execution instead of as a single, monolithic thread. 
	Multithreaded programs can be more adaptive to variations in demands than single threaded 
	programs.

	Uses fewer resources compared to multiple program tasks.

COMMANDS

	pthread_self() 		function returns the ID of the calling thread.
	The  pthread_create()	function  starts  a  new  thread in the calling process. The new thread
				starts execution by invoking start_routine(); arg is passed as the sole 
				argument of start_routine().
	pthread_create()	All of the threads in a process are peers: any thread can join with 
				any other thread in the process. The function waits for the thread 
				specified by thread to terminate. If that thread has already 
				terminated, then pthread_join() returns immediately. The thread 
				specified by thread must be joinable.
	pthread_exit()		terminates the calling thread and returns a value via retval that 
				(if the thread is joinable) is available to another thread in the same 
				process that calls pthread_join(3).
	
	pthread_attr_init()	The  pthread_attr_init() function  initializes the thread attributes 
				object pointed to by attr with default attribute values.
	pthread_attr_destroy()	When a thread attributes object is no longer required, it 
				should be destroyed using the pthread_attr_destroy() function.
	pthread_attr_
	setdetachstate () 	The pthread_attr_setdetachstate() function sets the detach state 					attribute of the thread attributes object referred to by attr to the 
				value specified in detachstate. The detach state attribute determines 
				whether a thread created using the thread attributes object attr will 
				be created in a joinable or a detached state.
	pthread_key_create()	The pthread_key_create() function shall create a thread-specific data 
				key visible to all threads in the process. Key values provided are 
				opaque objects used to locate thread-specific data.
	pthread_key_delete()	delete a thread-specific data key previously returned by 
		pthread_key_create(). The thread-specific data values associated with key need not be NULL at the time pthread_key_delete() is called.
SEMAPHORE
	Is a variable or abstract data type used to control access to a common resource by multiple 
	processes in a concurrent system such as a multitasking operating system. Semaphore is simply a 
	variable. This variable is used to solve critical section problems and to achieve process 
	synchronization in the multi processing environment.



